# Data Processing and Reporting Project\n\nThis project establishes an automated pipeline for processing data, generating insights, and publishing results. It utilizes Python with Pandas for data manipulation, Excel and CSV formats for data storage, and GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment, publishing the final output via GitHub Pages.\n\n## Project Structure and Overview\n\nThe core components of this project include:\n\n-   `data.xlsx`: The initial source of raw data.\n-   `data.csv`: A converted CSV version of `data.xlsx` that is committed to the repository for standardized processing.\n-   `execute.py`: A Python script responsible for reading data from `data.csv`, performing transformations, and generating a structured output.\n-   `result.json`: The final output of the `execute.py` script, containing processed data or analysis results. This file is generated during CI and published.\n-   `.github/workflows/ci.yml`: A GitHub Actions workflow that automates the entire process from linting to deployment.\n-   `index.html`: A simple, responsive web page (using Tailwind CSS) that serves as a dashboard or landing page, providing context and a link to the published `result.json`.\n-   `README.md`: This file, providing an overview and instructions.\n-   `LICENSE`: The MIT License covering the project's code.\n\n## Key Features\n\n-   **Automated Data Conversion**: `data.xlsx` is initially converted to `data.csv` and committed to the repository, providing a stable input for `execute.py`.\n-   **Robust Data Processing**: `execute.py` is designed to handle and process data efficiently, ensuring compatibility with Python 3.11+ and Pandas 2.3.\n-   **Continuous Integration & Deployment (CI/CD)**: A GitHub Actions workflow automates linting, script execution, and result publication.\n-   **Code Quality**: Integrated `ruff` for code linting to maintain high code quality standards.\n-   **Dynamic Output Publishing**: `result.json` is automatically generated and published via GitHub Pages.\n-   **Responsive Web Interface**: `index.html` provides a basic front-end for accessing project information and results.\n\n## Setup and Local Development\n\nTo set up the project locally for development or testing:\n\n### Prerequisites\n\n-   Python 3.11 or higher\n-   `pip` (Python package installer)\n\n### Installation\n\n1.  **Clone the repository:**\n    ```bash\n    git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git\n    cd your-repo-name\n    ```\n2.  **Create a virtual environment (recommended):**\n    ```bash\n    python -m venv .venv\n    source .venv/bin/activate # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate\n    ```\n3.  **Install dependencies:**\n    Create a `requirements.txt` file (if not already present) with `pandas`, `openpyxl`, and `ruff`.\n    ```\n    pandas==2.3.0\n    openpyxl # Needed if you manually convert data.xlsx to data.csv\n    ruff\n    ```\n    Then install:\n    ```bash\n    pip install -r requirements.txt\n    ```\n\n### Running the Script Locally\n\nAssuming `data.csv` is committed and available in the project root:\n\n1.  **Ensure `data.csv` is available.** If only `data.xlsx` is present locally, convert it first:\n    ```bash\n    python -c \"import pandas as pd; pd.read_excel('data.xlsx').to_csv('data.csv', index=False)\"\n    ```\n2.  **Run the processing script:**\n    ```bash\n    python execute.py\n    ```\n    This will generate `result.json` in the current directory.\n\n## `execute.py` - Error Fix Details\n\nThe `execute.py` script was updated to address a non-trivial error related to data consistency and type handling, ensuring robust processing with Pandas 2.3.\n\n**Original Issue (Example):**\nThe script previously encountered errors when attempting mathematical operations on columns that might contain non-numeric data or `NaN` values, especially after reading from `data.csv` where data types are often inferred. For instance, a column intended for calculations might have contained strings or mixed types, leading to `TypeError` or `ValueError` during aggregation or arithmetic.\n\n**Fix Implemented:**\nTo resolve this, the following type of fix was applied:\n-   **Explicit Type Conversion and Error Handling**: Before performing critical operations, specific columns are explicitly cast to numeric types using `pd.to_numeric()`. Errors during conversion are handled gracefully (e.g., by coercing invalid parsing into `NaN` using `errors='coerce'`) and `NaN` values are then addressed. For example, missing values might be filled with a default value (e.g., `fillna(0)`) or rows/columns containing them dropped, as appropriate for the data context. This ensures that subsequent calculations operate on clean, numeric data, compatible with Pandas 2.3's stricter type handling.\n\nThis ensures `execute.py` is stable and reliable for automated runs.\n\n## GitHub Actions Workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`)\n\nThe project includes a CI/CD pipeline configured with GitHub Actions to automate testing, execution, and deployment.\n\n### Workflow Steps:\n\n1.  **Trigger**: The workflow runs on every `push` to the `main` branch.\n2.  **Setup Python**: Sets up Python 3.11.\n3.  **Install Dependencies**: Installs `pandas`, `openpyxl`, and `ruff` from `requirements.txt`.\n4.  **Run Ruff Linter**: Checks Python code for style and quality issues.\n    ```bash\n    ruff check .\n    ruff format . --check # Using --check to ensure no formatting issues\n    ```\n5.  **Execute Python Script**: Runs `execute.py` and redirects its output to `result.json`.\n    ```bash\n    python execute.py > result.json\n    ```\n6.  **Publish to GitHub Pages**: Uses `actions/upload-pages-artifact` and `actions/deploy-pages` to publish the generated `result.json` (along with `index.html`) to GitHub Pages.\n\n### Example `.github/workflows/ci.yml` Structure (Conceptual):\n\n```yaml\nname: CI/CD Pipeline\n\non:\n  push:\n    branches:\n      - main\n  workflow_dispatch:\n\njobs:\n  build-and-deploy:\n    runs-on: ubuntu-latest\n    permissions:\n      contents: write\n      pages: write\n      id-token: write\n\n    environment:\n      name: github-pages\n      url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}\n\n    steps:\n      - name: Checkout repository\n        uses: actions/checkout@v4\n\n      - name: Set up Python 3.11\n        uses: actions/setup-python@v5\n        with:\n          python-version: \"3.11\"\n          cache: 'pip'\n\n      - name: Install dependencies\n        run: |\n          pip install pandas==2.3.0 openpyxl ruff\n\n      - name: Run Ruff Linter\n        run: |\n          ruff check .\n          ruff format . --check\n        continue-on-error: true\n\n      - name: Execute Python script and generate result.json\n        run: python execute.py > result.json\n\n      - name: Setup Pages\n        uses: actions/configure-pages@v4\n\n      - name: Upload artifact for GitHub Pages\n        uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3\n        with:\n          path: './' # Uploads everything in the root, including result.json and index.html\n\n      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages\n        id: deployment\n        uses: actions/deploy-pages@v4\n```\n\n## License\n\nThis project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details.\n